readme.md, before:

# 🧩 Token-Lab

A simple web app that **tokenizes text into numbers** and also **decodes numbers back into text**.  
Built with **React + Vite**, this project is part of my learning journey in JavaScript, vector databases, and web development.

<!-- 🔗 **Live Demo:** [Deployed Link](https://your-deployed-url)   -->
<!-- 💻 **Source Code:** [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/your-username/token-lab) -->

---

## ✨ Features
- Encode any input text → array of numeric tokens
- Decode numeric tokens → original text
- Copy output tokens with one click
- Real-time interactive UI
- Clean, minimal design

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **React** (UI components)
- **Vite** (fast build tool)
- **JavaScript (ES6+)**
- **CSS / Bootstrap** (styling)
- **Font-Awesome** (Icons)

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

Clone the project and run it locally:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/token-lab.git
cd token-lab
npm install
npm run dev

# 📦 Build for Production

npm run build

---

# 📂 Project Structure
token-lab/
├── src/  
│   ├── data/
│   │   └── data.js     # token mapping / charset
│   ├── utils/
│   │   └── utils.js    # reusable helper functions
│   ├── Encoder.jsx
│   ├── Decoder.jsx
│   ├── Homepage.jsx    # renders Encoder + Decoder
│   ├── App.jsx         # renders Homepage
│   ├── main.jsx
├── index.html
├── package.json
└── README.md

#🧑‍💻 Why I Built This

*This project was created as part of my Cohort assignment with ChaiCode – GenAI with JS.
*It gave me hands-on experience in:
  * Understanding the basics of text tokenization (used in vector databases & Gen AI)
  * Building a tokenizer from scratch
  * Organizing code with components, utils, and data files
  * Deploying a React + Vite app to production

## 📸 Demo Preview

![Demo GIF](./assets/demo.gif)

# 🤝 Contributing

Pull requests and suggestions are welcome!
If you have ideas for improving the tokenizer or extending it with new features, feel free to open an issue.

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License — free to use and modify.

# 📬 Connect

👤 Shubham Nishad
🌐 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shubham-nishad-936091328/)
🐦 [Twitter](https://x.com/Shubham11268506)

Commit message:

Update Readme with Live Links

readme.md, after:

# 🧩 Token-Lab

A simple web app that **tokenizes text into numbers** and also **decodes numbers back into text**.  
Built with **React + Vite**, this project is part of my learning journey in JavaScript, vector databases, and web development.

🔗 **Live Demo:** [Deployed Link](https://token-lab.onrender.com/)
💻 **Source Code:** [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/codewithshubham-tech/Token-Lab.git)

---

## ✨ Features
- Encode any input text → array of numeric tokens
- Decode numeric tokens → original text
- Copy output tokens with one click
- Real-time interactive UI
- Clean, minimal design

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **React** (UI components)
- **Vite** (fast build tool)
- **JavaScript (ES6+)**
- **CSS / Bootstrap** (styling)
- **Font-Awesome** (Icons)

---

## 📬 Connect

👤 **Shubham Nishad**  
🌐 [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shubham-nishad-936091328/)  
🐦 [Twitter](https://x.com/Shubham11268506)

---

## 🧑‍💻 Why I Built This

*This project was created as part of my Cohort assignment with ChaiCode – GenAI with JS.
*It gave me hands-on experience in:
  * Understanding the basics of text tokenization (used in vector databases & Gen AI).
  * Building a tokenizer from scratch.
  * Organizing code with components, utils, and data files.
  * Deploying a React + Vite app to production.

## 🚀 Getting Started

Clone the project and run it locally:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/token-lab.git
npm install
npm run dev

##📦 Build for Production

npm run build

---

# 📂 Project Structure
token-lab/
├── src/  
│   ├── data/
│   │   └── data.js     # token mapping / charset
│   ├── utils/
│   │   └── utils.js    # reusable helper functions
│   ├── Encoder.jsx
│   ├── Decoder.jsx
│   ├── Homepage.jsx    # renders Encoder + Decoder
│   ├── App.jsx         # renders Homepage
│   ├── main.jsx
├── index.html
├── package.json
└── README.md

---

## 📸 Demo Preview

![Demo GIF](./assets/demo.gif)

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Pull requests and suggestions are welcome!
If you have ideas for improving the tokenizer or extending it with new features, feel free to open an issue.
